A common tool used to query network devices is Nmap,
which is short for network mapper.
It's been around for over 20 years and has
both a command line and gooey interface known as Zenmap.
Go to nmap.org to learn more about it and download it.
It's been around for over 20 years and it's free for your use.
Let me show you how it's used.
Nmap or Zenmap, what you see is used to map networks.
What I've done here is just mapped my local machine using the IP address of 127.0.0.1,
and I performed an intense scan.
There are many different types of scans you can
perform to show what is running on your network,
including just a quick ping scan,
which just says if a device is active,
the quick scan will look for most common ports,
and an intense scan looks for pretty much everything.
Looking at this local machine,
127.0.0.1, If we scroll down,
you see we have numerous ports that are open.
These are basically ways to enter the computer support 135,
and 445, and 3389 are common for Windows.
One thing to note with port 3389,
this is actually used for Windows Terminal services and we
use this for the Remote Desktop Protocol or RDP.
There's a lot of really interesting information available through Nmap.
I recommend you take some time to go to the website,
download it, and play with it.
Check out Nmap at nmap.org.